# Avatars
**Please note that this is a draft version**

The validator executable can use different ethereum accounts for performing different transactions. Some of the ethereum account are sensitive as compared to others, so the compromise of such keys can result in to a big loss. To differentiate between the signing keys for different purposes the concept of Avatar is introduced. For example, the key used to propose a link is different has is not as significant as the account used to register the vote.

Avatars are the services that are triggered by the subjective models. The details of the [Subjective Models](20200306-subjective-models.md) is here.
The primary responsibility of the Avatar services is to perform an ethereum transactions based on the policies defined for the facilitator.
The details of the [policies](20200306-policies.md) is here.

The avatar services hold the unlocked ethereum account that can sign the transactions or generate the signature.

Following are the identified/proposed avatar services.
1. **CommitteeAvatar**
    This avatar is related to committee.
    - This service is triggered by the following :
        - CommitteeCooldownModel
        - CommitteeActivateModel
        - CommitteeSubmitSealedCommitModel
        - CommitteeChallengeModel
        - CommitteeCloseCommitPhaseModel
        - CommitteeRevealCommitModel
        - FormCommitteeModel
        - EnterCommitteeModel
        - BlockHistoryModel
1. **ReporterAvatar**
    This avatar is related to proposing or reporting a link.
    - This service is triggered by:
        - ProposeLinkModel
        - ProposeMetablockModel
        - CommitMetablockModel
        - CommitCheckpointModel
        - ObserveBlockModel
        - BlockHistoryModel
4. **ValidatorAvatar**
    This avatar is related to the validator related transactions.
    - This service is triggered by:
        - RegisterVoteModel
        - BlockHistoryModel
5. **FacilitatorAvatar**
    This avatar is related to the facilitator.
    - This service is triggered by:
        - ConfirmOpenKernelModel
        - BlockHistoryModel
**All the avatar services does the following**
- Gets the data from the policy to know if it should send any transactions / or generate signature.
- If policy returns null data, it will not perform any action.
- If the policy returns a non-null data, then depending upon the avatar type, it perform the action (transation/generate signature).
- It created a transaction object and submits to transaction executor.
- Updates the subjective model.